Bears RB D&#39;Andre Swift hopes he convinced team to keep him heading into last year of contract
BY JASON LIESER, CHICAGO SUN-TIMES

A do-it-all running back is an essential
for the Bears in coach Ben Johnson’s
offense, and they might already have one
in D’Andre Swift.
He completely flipped the outlook on
whether he’s a good fit with a renewed
north-south running style and a 1,000-
yard season after a disappointing 2024
and now, rather than eying the relatively
cheap $1.3 million out on his contract
this offseason, the Bears have him on
board at an affordable $8.8 million this
season.
Swift knows there’s some uncertainty, but
made a strong case to stay with a career-
high 1,087 yards and nine touchdowns.
“I have no idea, but hopefully I did
enough for them to want me back because I
know I don’t want to go anywhere else,”
he told the Sun-Times. “I hope it plays
itself out that way. I love the city, I
love the coaching staff and the men that
I work with. That’s out of my control,
but if I had it my way, I’d be back. I
don’t want to play nowhere else.”
Johnson played a major part in Swift’s
success and his desire to remain with the
Bears, which was interesting given their
history. While Johnson has maintained he
has always seen high potential in Swift,
he was part of the Lions’ coaching staff
when they traded him to the Eagles for a
fourth-round pick in 2023.
In Swift’s first season with the Bears,
albeit amid dysfunction in coach Matt
Eberflus’ staff and with a struggling
offensive line, he often seemed too
reliant on running laterally to look for
big gains rather than hitting the holes
quickly. Swift has said he didn’t change
his running style at all this season, but
his yards per carry jumped from 3.8 to
4.9 in a more effective system and with a
significantly upgraded offensive line.

“First of all, Ben always believed in me
as a player, so just him giving me
opportunities was great,” Swift said.
“The more opportunities I’m given, the
more I can make stuff happen.”
It’s hard to deny the impact of former
running backs coach Eric Bieniemy as
well, and Swift said he was “sad to see
him leave” for the Chiefs as offensive
coordinator. The Bears have agreed to
hire veteran coach Eric Studesville to
replace him, and Swift was “excited for
this new relationship.”
Bieniemy helped the Bears establish a
surprisingly solid backfield tandem with
Swift and rookie Kyle Monangai. Going
into the season there were doubts from
the outside on whether either was what
the Bears needed, but those two led the
way as the team finished third in the NFL
in rushing at 144.5 yards per game.
Swift finished 12th in the league in
rushing, and Monangai, a seventh-round
pick, ran for 783 yards — fifth in his
draft class and 24th in the NFL.
The upside for Swift, who is still in the
ideal window for a running back after
turning 27 last month, is he believes he
can produce even more in Johnson’s
offense than he showed last season. He
caught a career-low 34 passes for 299
yards and a touchdown, and when playing
for Johnson in 2021, he put up 452 yards
and two touchdowns on 62 catches. The
Lions targeted him 78 times that season.
“I can do more,” he said. “I wish I
would’ve been able to contribute a little
more in the passing game. We’ve got so
many pass-catchers on the field, so
whenever it does come up, I try to make
something happen with it, but I do know I
could do more.”